The first up in our rapid tour
of modern systems is Redis.
Redis calls itself an in-memory
data structure store.
In simple terms, Redis is not a full blown
DBMS, in the sense we discussed earlier.
It can persist data on disks, and
does so to save its state, but
it's intended use is to optimally
use memory and memory based methods
to make a number of common data
structures very fast for lots of users.
Here is a list of data
structures that Redis supports.
A good way to think about them is
to think of a data lookup problem.
Now, in the simplest case,
a lookup needs a key value pair
where the key is a string and
the value is also a string.
So for a lookup we provide the key and
get back the value.
Simple, right?
Let's see.
I'm sure you've seen captures like this.
These are small images used by websites
to ensure that the user is a human and
not a robot.
The images presented to the user,
who is supposed to write the text he or
she sees in the image, into a text box.
Upon success, the user is let in.
To implement this,
one obviously needs a key value stored,
where the key is the idea of the image.
And the value is the desired text.
Now what if we wanted to use
the image itself as the key,
instead of an ID number that
you generate separately?
The content of the image,
which let's say is a .jpg file,
can be thought of as a binary string.
But can it serve as a key then?
According to the Redis specification,
it can.
The Redis string can be binary and
can have a size of up to 512 megabytes,
although its internal limit is higher.
So, small images like this can indeed
be used as binary string keys.
In some application scenarios,
keys may have an internal structure.
For example,
product codes may have product family,
manufacturing batch, and the actual
product ID strung together into one ID.
The example shown here is a typical
Twitter style key to store the response
to comment one, two, three, four.
How long do we want to
keep the comment around,
this is a standard big data issue
when it comes to streaming data
whose data values have limited
utility beyond the certain period.
One typically would not look for
this response possibly three
months after the conversation.
One would certainly not like to keep
such a value in memory for a long time.
Because the memory is being used as
a cache for rapid access to current data.
In fact Redis has the ability
to delete an expired key and
can be made to call a function
to generate a new key.
An interesting side
benefits to structured keys
that it can encode
a hierarchy to the structure.
In the example,
we show keys that represent
increasingly finer subgroups of users.
With this structure,
a lookup on user.commercial.entertainment
will also retrieve values
from user.commercial.entertainment.movie
industry.
A slightly more complex case occurs
when the value is not atomic,
but a collection object like a list
which by definition is an ordered set.
An example of such a list
can come from Twitter,
that uses Redis list to store timelines.
Now borrowed from a Twitter presentation
about their timeline architecture
our timeline service can
take a specific ID, and
it quickly identifies all tweets of
this user that are in the cache.
These tweets are then populated
by the content of the tweet,
then returned as a result.
This list can be long, but the insertion
and delete operations on the list
can be performed in constant
time which is in milliseconds.
If a tweet is retweeted,
the IDs of those tweets are also added
to the list of the first tweet, as you can
see for the three cases in the figure.
When the lists are long,
space saving becomes an important issue.
So Redis employs a method called
Ziplists which essentially
compacts the size of the list in
memory without changing the content.
Often producing significant
reduction in memory used.
Of course,
while Ziplists are very efficient for
retrieval, they are a little more complex
for insertion and deletion operations.
Since Redis is an open source system,
Twitter made a few innovations
on the Redis data structures.
One of these innovations is that
they created lists of Ziplists.
This gave them the flexibility of
having constant timing insertions and
deletions and at the same time used the
compressed representation to save space.
In 2012, the timeline service has about
40 terabytes of main memory, serving
30 million user queries per second.
Running on over 6,000
machines in one data center.
For those interested I would like to point
you to two wonderful Twitter presentation
explaining Twitter's use of Redis
among other design issue for
a realtime data system like Twitter.
We also introduce links in
the supplemental readings for this lesson.
Now the value to be looked up by the keys
can actually be more complicated and
can be records containing
attribute value pairs themselves.
Redis values can be hashes
which are essentially named containers
of unique fields and their values.
In the example, the key, std:101,
is associated with five
attributed value pairs.
The hashed attributes
are stored very efficiently.
And even when the list of attributed
value pairs in a hash is really long,
retrieval is efficient.
Horizontal scalability or
scale out capabilities refers
to the ability of a system
to achieve scalability when the number
of machines it operates on is increased.
Redis allows data partitioning through
range partitioning and hash partitioning.
Rate partitioning takes a numeric key and
breaks up the range of keys into bins.
In this case, by bins of 10,000
each of bin is assigned a machine.
And ultimately, a partitioning is where
computing a hashing function on a key.
Suppose we have 10 machines.
We pick the key and use the hash
function to get back a number.
We represent the number, modular 10,
and the result, in this case,
2, is the machine to which
the record will be allocated.
Replication is accomplished in
Redis through master-slave mode.
The slaves have a copy of the master node.
And can serve read queries.
Clients write to the master node.
And master node replicates to the slaves.
Clients read from the slaves to
scale up the read performance.
The replication processes are synchronous.
That is that slaves do not get replicated
data, it locks them with each other.
However, the replication
process does ensure
that they're consistent with each other.